[intel 开发手册卷3](https://software.intel.com/sites/default/files/managed/a4/60/325384-sdm-vol-3abcd.pdf)   

## 名词解释   
段选择子(segment selector) 有16位 末尾3 位是标志位,前面13 位才是真正的偏移值(offset)  

- 16 位 8086 
16 位的cpu 的寻址方式是 段+偏移地址  
段寄存器存的是 段地址   

- 32 位  cpu 
先从实模式创建好页表然后加载gdt 然后 开启保护模式   
保护模式的寻址方式   
段寄存器 存的是段选择子,在段寄存器不可见的部分则缓存了 段地址和相关的段长等信息     
段选择子叫做 selector ,其实就是 一个相对值(offset),相对于段选择符表的基地址的偏移值  
段描述符表的基地址存在LDTR 或者GDTR 里面  

cr3 存的是页目录的 物理地址  
cr2 存的是页错误的线性地址  

[CPL DPL RPL 名词解释](https://software.intel.com/sites/default/files/managed/a4/60/325384-sdm-vol-3abcd.pdf) 的 158 页  

- CPL  
• Current privilege level (CPL) — The CPL is the privilege level of the currently executing program or task. It
is stored in bits 0 and 1 of the CS and SS segment registers. Normally, the CPL is equal to the privilege level of
the code segment from which instructions are being fetched. The processor changes the CPL when program
control is transferred to a code segment with a different privilege level. The CPL is treated slightly differently
when accessing conforming code segments. Conforming code segments can be accessed from any privilege
level that is equal to or numerically greater (less privileged) than the DPL of the conforming code segment.
Also, the CPL is not changed when the processor accesses a conforming code segment that has a different
privilege level than the CPL.
- DPL  
Descriptor privilege level (DPL) — The DPL is the privilege level of a segment or gate. It is stored in the DPL
field of the segment or gate descriptor for the segment or gate. When the currently executing code segment
attempts to access a segment or gate, the DPL of the segment or gate is compared to the CPL and RPL of the
segment or gate selector (as described later in this section). The DPL is interpreted differently, depending on
the type of segment or gate being accessed:  
-RPL  
• Requested privilege level (RPL) — The RPL is an override privilege level that is assigned to segment
selectors. It is stored in bits 0 and 1 of the segment selector. The processor checks the RPL along with the CPL
to determine if access to a segment is allowed. Even if the program or task requesting access to a segment has
sufficient privilege to access the segment, access is denied if the RPL is not of sufficient privilege level. That is,
if the RPL of a segment selector is numerically greater than the CPL, the RPL overrides the CPL, and vice versa.
The RPL can be used to insure that privileged code does not access a segment on behalf of an application
program unless the program itself has access privileges for that segment. See Section 5.10.4, “Checking Caller
Access Privileges (ARPL Instruction),” for a detailed description of the purpose and typical use of the RPL.

For Intel Core i7 processors and processors based on Inte
l Core, Intel Atom, and Intel NetBurst microarchitectures, 
Intel Core Duo, Intel Core Solo and Pentium M processors, the cache lines for the L1 and L2 caches (and L3 caches 
if supported) are 64 bytes wide.

